# dataanalytics
UofT 2022 Bootcamp
Kiena Dang
13 March 2022
Kickstarting with Excel

Overview of Project
The overview of this project was to compare and contrast data between different campaigns in regard to their launch dates and individual funding goals for the client, Louise. There is a large data set filled with different campaigns from different countries, parent categories, subcategories, goals, pledge, dates launched, and more. By using excel, we are able to contain a vast amount of data and use functions, filters, and graphs to better suit Louise's requests. 
Purpose
	Louise's play "Fever" had a fundraising goal, which they had met within a small timeframe. Now, Louise is curious to see the comparisons between different campaigns. With a large variety of campaigns, the client was determined to know of the successes or failures, even cancelled and live, given various categories to differentiate from.

Analysis and Challenges
	In using excel, it is fairly straightforward to analyze data with the use of functions, filters, graphs, and more. Overall, a thorough analysis of Louise’s play and other campaigns she had wished to follow up on was achievable. Though, there were some challenges faced throughout.
Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
	The data established on Outcomes Based on Launch Date has concluded that peak summer months (May-July) have the most campaign attempts, whether successful, failed, or canceled; this could be due to warmer, welcoming, and encouraging weather which creates less stress for fundraiser set up and traveling; also, as the weather heats up, and days get longer, seasonal depression symptoms begin to lessen therefore campaign leaders start pursing more; and, recognizing that more and more campaigns/fundraisers are debuting, may motivate the next leader to start their journey. Secondly, May was the peak of successful campaigns - this could be on account of “new year goals” assumably as fundraisers may take a few months to perfect; also, the better weather allows for more participants to willingly attend; and, the start of a new season accounts for a fresh start. Thirdly, the most canceled fundraisers were depicted during the winter months (January), this could be because of weather conditions, and holidays overshadowing certain dates. Lastly, the zenith of failed campaigns were in May - this could be due to a large amount of competition as this month had the most attempts of fundraisers launching.
Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
	Now, the data founded on Outcomes based on Goals shows that the most successful campaigns had a goal of 1000-4999 - this seems to be an occurrence of an achievable and realistic goal. Secondly, the most projects that have launched had set a goal within 1000-4999, which again, is also the most successful and achievable goal. Thirdly, The percentage of failed graph line has an upward trend - the higher the goal becomes, the more room for failure it has. Lastly and correspondingly, the percentage of successful outcomes graph line has a downward trend - while the goal amount become higher, it becomes less and less attainable. As we can see, both trend lines are a mirror of eacht other, low success as the goal climbs higher and high failure when the goal heightens.
Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
	Some difficulties I have encountered while analyzing Lousie’s data were advanced filtering, combing through a large amount of data, and understanding the various reasons for a certain outcome. The challenge in advanced filtering was finding the correct criteria and confirming that each filter was strict. Next, having a vast amount of data at your fingertips may be a tad overwhelming for anyone, I was fearful of losing or distrupting any data, big or small. And, allowing your mind to think outside of the box and conclude different reasons for certain outcomes.
Results
What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?
	Two conclusions that I can draw from Outcomes based on Launch Date are: the months with the most attempted fundraisers are the peak summer months (May-July) and this could be because of brighter, warmer, longer days which attract attendees, lessen seasonal depression, allow for better motivation and drive, and less worries all in all; and, that the high success in May can be linked to the most attempts in May, and more specifically clearer mind as leaders bring in the new embracing season.
What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?
	The main conclusion in regard to Outcomes based on Goals is that realist goals achieve higher success. For some leaders, they live to push themselves to the limits - however, this allows for a larger margin for failure, which the data has concluded to be true. The more attainable the goal is, the larger chance there is for success. Likewise, the less attainable the goal is, the lesser chance this is for success.
What are some limitations of this dataset?
	A couple limitations of this dataset were “live” outcomes and categories and subcategories. “Live” outcomes in the data were slim yet could have been useful if they were “successful”, “failed”, or “canceled” data - This was a limitation for my process because we are accounting for data that is not finished, or set in stone, but it can be helpful when analyzing based on launch opposed to the aftermath. And, I believe that the data would be more uniform if it was set to one parent category and a few subcategories rather than various parent categories and multiple subcategories for each, especially if Louise were to compare campaign data that were more similar to hers.
What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?
	Lastly, some other possible graphs we could create based on this data set are clustered column graphs and pie charts. Clustered column graphs could be a great addition to the kickstarter original data set to incorporate successful, failed, and canceled outcomes. And, pie charts could be read by filtered countries or outcomes from the kickstarter data set.
